https://techcrunch.com/2025/03/25/microsoft-adds-ai-powered-deep-research-tools-to-copilot/
1,200+ founders & VCs. One day. Unlimited growth. Join us July 15 in Boston to fuel your scaling journey—save up to $320 by March 31.
Picture describing TechCrunch Logo
Connect with 1,200+ founders and VCs for a day of actionable insights, investor connections, and growth strategies. Join us in Boston on July 15—register by March 31 to save up to $320!
Microsoft’s flavors are called Researcher and Analyst.
What makes Microsoft’s deep research tools slightly more unique than the competition is their access to work data as well as the worldwide web. For example, Researcher can tap third-party data connectors to draw on data from AI “agents,” tools, and apps like Confluence, ServiceNow, and Salesforce.
Open source devs are fighting AI crawlers with cleverness and vengeance
Researcher combines OpenAI’s deep research model — which powers the company’s own ChatGPT deep research tool — with “advanced orchestration” and “deep search capabilities.” Microsoft claims that Researcher can perform analyses, including developing a go-to-market strategy and creating a quarterly report for a client.
There’s been a raft of deep research agents launched recently across chatbots, including OpenAI’s ChatGPT, Google’s Gemini, and xAI’s Grok. Powering them are reasoning AI models, which posses the ability to think through problems and fact-check themselves — skills arguably important for conducting in-depth research on a subject.
Granted, the real challenge is ensuring tools such as Researcher and Analyst don’t hallucinate or otherwise make stuff up. Models, including o3-mini, and deep research are by no means perfect; from time to time, they mis-cite work, draw incorrect conclusions, and pull from dubious public websites to inform their reasoning.
Microsoft is launching a new Frontier program through which Microsoft 365 Copilot customers can gain access to Researcher and Analyst. Those enrolled in Frontier, which going forward will gain experimental Copilot features first, will get Researcher and Analyst starting in April.
Microsoft is introducing a “deep research” AI-powered tool in Microsoft 365 Copilot, its AI chatbot app.
As for Analyst, it’s built on OpenAI’s o3-mini reasoning model and is “optimized to do advanced data analysis,” Microsoft said. Analyst progresses through problems iteratively, taking steps to refine its “thinking” and provide a detailed answer to queries. Analyst can also run the programming language Python to tackle complex data queries, Microsoft added, and expose its “work” for inspection.
Kyle Wiggers is TechCrunch’s AI Editor. His writing has appeared in VentureBeat and Digital Trends, as well as a range of gadget blogs including Android Police, Android Authority, Droid-Life, and XDA-Developers. He lives in Manhattan with his partner, a music therapist.
Picture describing In this photo illustration, the Microsoft Copilot logo is seen in the background next to a silhouette of a person using a notebook.
Immerse yourself in the world of AI with 1,200 visionaries, VCs, and industry pioneers. From groundbreaking main-stage talks to deep-dive breakout sessions and high-impact networking, this is where AI’s future takes shape. Be part of the movement.
Microsoft adds AI-powered deep research tools to Copilot