https://techcrunch.com/2025/03/27/twins-first-ai-agent-is-an-invoice-retrieval-agent-for-qonto-customers/
Over the past three months, Twin has created an automatic invoice-retrieval tool that can speed up this process. When users launch Invoice Operator, Twin first fetches the list of transactions with missing invoices. It then shows the list of services that it needs to access to download invoices next to a browser window showing the agent’s actions.
1,200+ founders & VCs. One day. Unlimited growth. Join us July 15 in Boston to fuel your scaling journey—save up to $320 by March 31.
If you need to log in to a service to download invoices, the browser pauses and asks you to enter your credentials manually. Once you do this, you can click on a button to let the agent continue its work.
Picture describing TechCrunch Logo
Twin’s first AI agent is an invoice-retrieval agent for Qonto customers
After that, Twin’s Invoice Operator automatically finds your list of past transactions, downloads invoices, and attaches the PDFs to the transactions in your Qonto account.
Twin is pitching a future in which AI agents become cheaper, faster, and more accurate across a wide variety of tasks. Now let’s see if the startup can turn the core agent platform that powers Invoice Operator into a product that developers can start using in their own applications.
CUA is also the model that powers OpenAI’s Operator, its prosumer product that lets you enter a prompt to let an agent perform an action for you. In addition to better performance, Twin believes it should be easier to use agents that browse the web for you.
Invoice Operator, Twin’s first product designed for Qonto, is a good example of why it makes sense to use artificial intelligence. Qonto handles millions of invoices per month. And customers spend several hours per month gathering invoices and uploading them to Qonto.
As for API-based automation products like Zapier, Mercier said that it took Zapier 10 years to support 8,000 applications on its platform. Twin already supports thousands of applications for its Invoice Operator just a couple of months after starting work on the product.
‘It was weird, man’: Zuckerberg took Facebook employees to see ‘The Social Network’ when it came out
Picture describing Romain Dillet
With its team of nine people, Twin thinks there’s a much more efficient way to handle automation. As you may have guessed, it involved artificial intelligence and computer use models.
Connect with 1,200+ founders and VCs for a day of actionable insights, investor connections, and growth strategies. Join us in Boston on July 15—register by March 31 to save up to $320!
“And that would be completely impossible with RPA because you would need to create a single custom script per website and then every time the website changes, you would have to modify the script,” he added.
Open source devs are fighting AI crawlers with cleverness and vengeance
“When you do that at the scale of Qonto, you basically need to cover a very, very long tail of services. Thousands, tens of thousands and soon hundreds of thousands of different services that everyone is using,” Twin co-founder and CEO Hugo Mercier said during a demo of the product.
After invoice retrieval, Twin thinks there are many industries that could benefit from B2B agentic applications. For example, agents could automatically manage orders for an e-commerce company, classify the catalog of a marketplace, or retrieve information for call center agents.
If you want to automate repetitive tasks, there are already several ways to tackle these problems. Some companies use API-based, no-code or low-code automation products like Zapier. Others rely on RPA software, such as UiPath.
a16z- and Benchmark-backed 11x has been claiming customers it doesn’t have
When Twin came out of stealth in January 2024, AI agents were more of a theoretical concept than a reality. Today, the Paris-based company is releasing an automation agent in partnership with Qonto, the fintech startup that offers business bank accounts to more than 500,000 customers across Europe.
Behind the scenes, Twin runs a Chromium-based web browser on a server. The startup uses OpenAI’s CUA (computer-using agent) model. In fact, Twin was one of the 15 companies that got to try CUA in beta.
“We worked a lot on making the experience extremely simple. We are really targeting the end user, maybe people who are not tech-friendly. They don’t have to prompt or configure anything. You just log into your accounts, launch it, and it navigates to find the invoices,” Mercier said.
Immerse yourself in the world of AI with 1,200 visionaries, VCs, and industry pioneers. From groundbreaking main-stage talks to deep-dive breakout sessions and high-impact networking, this is where AI’s future takes shape. Be part of the movement.
Romain Dillet is a Senior Reporter at TechCrunch.

He has written over 3,500 articles on technology and tech startups and has established himself as an influential voice on the European tech scene. He has a deep background in startups, AI, fintech, privacy, security, blockchain, mobile, social and media.

With thirteen years of experience at TechCrunch, he’s one of the familiar faces of the tech publication that obsessively covers Silicon Valley and the tech industry — his career started at TechCrunch when he was 21. Based in Paris, many people in the tech ecosystem consider him as the most knowledgeable tech journalist in town.

Romain likes to spot important startups before anyone else. He was the first person to cover Revolut, Alan and N26. He has written scoops on large acquisitions from Apple, Microsoft and Snap.

When he’s not writing, Romain is also a developer — he understands how the tech behind the tech works. He also has a deep historical knowledge of the computer industry for the past 50 years. He knows how to connect the dots between innovations and the effect on the fabric of our society.

Romain graduated from Emlyon Business School, a leading French business school specialized in entrepreneurship. He has helped several non-profit organizations, such as StartHer, an organization that promotes education and empowerment of women in technology, and Techfugees, an organization that empowers displaced people with technology.