https://techcrunch.com/2025/03/27/google-rolls-out-new-vacation-planning-features-to-search-maps-and-gemini/
From there, you will be able to browse through photos and reviews and see locations on an expandable map. When you’re ready to save an itinerary, you can tap “Export” to share the recommendations through Docs or Gmail. Or, you can save them as a custom list in Google Maps.
Google Search’s AI Overviews, which display a snapshot of information at the top of the results page, can now help users get trip ideas for certain regions or countries. Starting this week, users can search for something like “create an itinerary for Costa Rica with a focus on nature.”
1,200+ founders & VCs. One day. Unlimited growth. Join us July 15 in Boston to fuel your scaling journey—save up to $320 by March 31.
Google is rolling out a slew of new features — some powered by AI — across Search, Maps, and Gemini that are designed to help people plan their summer vacations. The new features arrive as users have been turning to tools like OpenAI’s ChatGPT for help with planning trips.
OpenAI peels back ChatGPT’s safeguards around image creation
Google is also making Gemini’s Gems feature available to everyone for free. A Gem is a tool that lets you create custom AI experts for any task within Gemini. This means that users can now set up a trip planner that can help them pick a destination to go to and suggest what to pack.
Now, users can give Maps access to their photos to allow the app to automatically identify places mentioned in your screenshots so you can review and save the ones you want to a list. The places that you save will show up on the map so you can get an overview of your plans.
As for Maps, Google is rolling out the ability for users to turn their screenshots into solid vacation plans. When planning a vacation, people often take screenshots to bookmark places they want to visit, but can sometimes forget about these photos in their camera roll.
This feature is rolling out this week in the U.S. in English on iOS, and will launch on Android soon.
Hotel price tracking is launching globally this week on mobile and desktop browsers.
Connect with 1,200+ founders and VCs for a day of actionable insights, investor connections, and growth strategies. Join us in Boston on July 15—register by March 31 to save up to $320!
Picture describing 31 January 2025, Bavaria, Munich: The Google logo and lettering can be seen on the facade of the company's Munich headquarters on January 31, 2025 in Munich (Bavaria). The company's development center is located in Arnulfpark. More than 2,500 employees work for the US company at various locations in Germany. The parent company of Google LLC is Alphabet Inc. Photo: Matthias Balk/dpa (Photo by Matthias Balk/picture alliance via Getty Images)
In addition, while Google has allowed users to get alerts on price drops for flights for quite some time now, it’s now going to do the same with hotels. Users will now see a new option to track hotel prices for chosen dates and destinations. You can select filters for your hotel search, such as star ratings or beach access, for a specific area. If prices go down, Google will send you an email.
Immerse yourself in the world of AI with 1,200 visionaries, VCs, and industry pioneers. From groundbreaking main-stage talks to deep-dive breakout sessions and high-impact networking, this is where AI’s future takes shape. Be part of the movement.
Google rolls out new vacation-planning features to Search, Maps, and Gemini
The new feature is available for English language queries in the U.S. on mobile and desktop.