https://techcrunch.com/2025/03/26/leaked-data-exposes-a-chinese-ai-censorship-machine/
There’s extensive material related to Taiwan and military matters, such as commentary about Taiwan’s military capabilities and details about a new Chinese jet fighter. The Chinese word for Taiwan (台湾) alone is mentioned over 15,000 times in the data, a search by TechCrunch shows.
1,200+ founders & VCs. One day. Unlimited growth. Join us July 15 in Boston to fuel your scaling journey—save up to $320 by March 31.
This adds to growing evidence that authoritarian regimes are quickly adopting the latest AI tech. In February, for example, OpenAI said it caught multiple Chinese entities using LLMs to track anti-government posts and smear Chinese dissidents.
Picture describing TechCrunch Logo
‘Tesla Takedown’ protesters are planning a global day of action on March 29, and things might get ugly
Picture describing Charles Rollet
From this huge collection of 133,000 examples that the LLM must evaluate for censorship, TechCrunch gathered 10 representative pieces of content.
But newer AI tech, like LLMs, can make censorship more efficient by finding even subtle criticism at a vast scale. Some AI systems can also keep improving as they gobble up more and more data.
The end goal is ensuring Chinese government narratives are protected online, while any alternative views are purged. Chinese president Xi Jinping has himself described the internet as the “frontline” of the CCP’s “public opinion work.”
This doesn’t indicate any involvement from either company — all kinds of organizations store their data with these providers.
This photo taken on June 4, 2019, shows the Chinese flag behind razor wire at a housing compound in Yengisar, south of Kashgar, in China’s western Xinjiang region.
Another piece of content laments rural poverty in China, describing run-down towns that only have elderly people and children left in them. There’s also a news report about the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) expelling a local official for severe corruption and believing in “superstitions” instead of Marxism.
OpenAI peels back ChatGPT’s safeguards around image creation
These are just a few of the 133,000 examples fed into a sophisticated large language model that’s designed to automatically flag any piece of content considered sensitive by the Chinese government.
The dataset doesn’t include any information about its creators. But it does say that it’s intended for “public opinion work,” which offers a strong clue that it’s meant to serve Chinese government goals, one expert told TechCrunch.
Michael Caster, the Asia program manager of rights organization Article 19, explained that “public opinion work” is overseen by a powerful Chinese government regulator, the Cyberspace Administration of China (CAC), and typically refers to censorship and propaganda efforts.
10 representative pieces of content
many users experienced using DeepSeek for the first time
‘It was weird, man’: Zuckerberg took Facebook employees to see ‘The Social Network’ when it came out
In language eerily reminiscent of how people prompt ChatGPT, the system’s creator tasks an unnamed LLM to figure out if a piece of content has anything to do with sensitive topics related to politics, social life, and the military. Such content is deemed “highest priority” and needs to be immediately flagged.
by security researcher NetAskari
Traditionally, China’s censorship methods rely on more basic algorithms that automatically block content mentioning blacklisted terms, like “Tiananmen massacre” or “Xi Jinping,” as many users experienced using DeepSeek for the first time.
“I think it’s crucial to highlight how AI-driven censorship is evolving, making state control over public discourse even more sophisticated, especially at a time when Chinese AI models such as DeepSeek are making headwaves,” Xiao, the Berkeley researcher, told TechCrunch.
Subtle dissent appears to be targeted, too. One snippet included in the database is an anecdote about the fleeting nature of power that uses the popular Chinese idiom “When the tree falls, the monkeys scatter.”
Connect with 1,200+ founders and VCs for a day of actionable insights, investor connections, and growth strategies. Join us in Boston on July 15—register by March 31 to save up to $320!
Any form of “political satire” is explicitly targeted. For example, if someone uses historical analogies to make a point about “current political figures,” that must be flagged instantly, and so must anything related to “Taiwan politics.” Military matters are extensively targeted, including reports of military movements, exercises, and weaponry.
Picture describing a snippet of JSON code that references prompt tokens and LLMs. much of the contents are in Chinese.
Picture describing Chinese flag on pole behind razor wire
Charles Rollet is a senior reporter at TechCrunch. His investigative reporting has led to U.S. government sanctions against four tech companies, including China’s largest AI firm. Prior to joining TechCrunch, Charles covered the surveillance industry for IPVM. Charles is based in San Francisco, where he enjoys hiking with his dogs. You can contact Charles securely on Signal at charlesrollet.12 or +1-628-282-2811.
There’s no indication of who, exactly, built the dataset, but records show that the data is recent, with its latest entries dating from December 2024.
Topics likely to stir up social unrest are a recurring theme. One snippet, for example, is a post by a business owner complaining about corrupt local police officers shaking down entrepreneurs, a rising issue in China as its economy struggles.
OpenAI released a report last month revealing that an unidentified actor, likely operating from China, used generative AI to monitor social media conversations — particularly those advocating for human rights protests against China — and forward them to the Chinese government.
Leaked data exposes a Chinese AI censorship machine
A snippet of the dataset can be seen below. The code inside it references prompt tokens and LLMs, confirming the system uses an AI model to do its bidding:
Power transitions are an especially touchy topic in China thanks to its authoritarian political system.
The dataset examined by TechCrunch is the latest evidence that authoritarian governments are seeking to leverage AI for repressive purposes.
A leaked database seen by TechCrunch reveals China has developed an AI system that supercharges its already formidable censorship machine, extending far beyond traditional taboos like the Tiananmen Square massacre.
tasks an unnamed LLM to figure out
If you know more about how AI is used in state opporession, you can contact Charles Rollet securely on Signal at charlesrollet.12 You also can contact TechCrunch via
Top-priority topics include pollution and food safety scandals, financial fraud, and labor disputes, which are hot-button issues in China that sometimes lead to public protests — for example, the Shifang anti-pollution protests of 2012.
“Unlike traditional censorship mechanisms, which rely on human labor for keyword-based filtering and manual review, an LLM trained on such instructions would significantly improve the efficiency and granularity of state-led information control,” Qiang told TechCrunch.
a16z- and Benchmark-backed 11x has been claiming customers it doesn’t have
A complaint about poverty in rural China. A news report about a corrupt Communist Party member. A cry for help about corrupt cops shaking down entrepreneurs.
The dataset was discovered by security researcher NetAskari, who shared a sample with TechCrunch after finding it stored in an unsecured Elasticsearch database hosted on a Baidu server.
The Chinese Embassy in Washington, D.C., told TechCrunch in a statement that it opposes “groundless attacks and slanders against China” and that China attaches great importance to developing ethical AI.
Xiao Qiang, a researcher at UC Berkeley who studies Chinese censorship and who also examined the dataset, told TechCrunch that it was “clear evidence” that the Chinese government or its affiliates want to use LLMs to improve repression.
The system appears primarily geared toward censoring Chinese citizens online but could be used for other purposes, like improving Chinese AI models’ already extensive censorship.
Immerse yourself in the world of AI with 1,200 visionaries, VCs, and industry pioneers. From groundbreaking main-stage talks to deep-dive breakout sessions and high-impact networking, this is where AI’s future takes shape. Be part of the movement.
Image Credits:Greg Baker / AFP / Getty Images
OpenAI also found the technology being used to generate comments highly critical of a prominent Chinese dissident, Cai Xia.