https://techcrunch.com/category/artificial-intelligence/
Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly.
Some areas of this page may shift around if you resize the browser window. Be sure to check heading and document order.
Every Monday, gets you up to speed on the latest advances in aerospace.
TechCrunch's AI experts cover the latest news in the fast-moving field.
Picture describing DeepMind logo
According to Gurman, this new service is tentatively called Health+.
Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage.
1,200+ founders & VCs. One epic day in Boston on July 15. Scale smarter, connect deeper — save $210 when you register now!
Add TechCrunch AI to your subscription choices
Picture describing Salva Health Co-Founder & CEO Valentina Agudelo Vargas, winner of the Startup Battlefield 2024, poses onstage during TechCrunch Disrupt 2024 Day 3 at Moscone Center on October 30, 2024 in San Francisco.
Immerse yourself in the world of AI with 1,200 visionaries, VCs, and industry pioneers. From groundbreaking main-stage talks to deep-dive breakout sessions and high-impact networking, this is where AI’s future takes shape. Be part of the movement.
Picture describing An Apple Watch displaying a heart rate measurement.
Add TechCrunch Space to your subscription choices
Startup Battlefield winner Salva Health is changing the game in breast cancer detection
Add Startups Weekly to your subscription choices
Alphabet’s AI drug discovery platform Isomorphic Labs raises $600M from Thrive
Subscribe for the industry’s biggest tech news
Picture describing Amazon logo on building
Gurman first reported that something like this was in the works back in 2023, but now he says development is moving ahead, with the new features potentially coming as soon as spring or summer of 2026, with the release of iOS 19.4.
Picture describing TechCrunch Logo
Anthropic launches an AI chatbot plan for colleges and universities
Picture describing Anthropic Co-Founder & CEO Dario Amodei speaks onstage during TechCrunch Disrupt 2023 at Moscone Center.
Add TechCrunch Daily News to your subscription choices
an AI coach that can advise users on how to get healthier
The AI coach’s advice would be based on data from across users’ medical devices, and would reportedly include food tracking. The coach is currently being trained on data from staff physicians, with Apple looking to bring in additional doctors to record health-related videos.
DeepMind’s 145-page paper on AGI safety may not convince skeptics
Apple is developing a new version of its Health app that includes an AI coach that can advise users on how to get healthier, according to Bloomberg’s Mark Gurman.
Apple reportedly revamping Health app to add an AI coach