https://techcrunch.com/2025/03/26/chatgpts-new-ai-image-feature-is-delayed-for-free-users/
1,200+ founders & VCs. One day. Unlimited growth. Join us July 15 in Boston to fuel your scaling journey—save up to $320 by March 31.
Picture describing TechCrunch Logo
TechCrunch's AI experts cover the latest news in the fast-moving field.
Add TechCrunch Daily News to your subscription choices
$500 billion Stargate data center project
Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage.
CoreWeave co-founder explains how a closet of crypto-mining GPUs led to a $1.5B IPO
OpenAI peels back ChatGPT’s safeguards around image creation
Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly.
Subscribe for the industry’s biggest tech news
Add TechCrunch Space to your subscription choices
In recent months, OpenAI has faced similar hiccups around product launches, repeatedly blaming a lack of compute capacity. Shortly after launching Sora in December, OpenAI disabled signups. Perhaps, the company’s planned $500 billion Stargate data center project will help with those capacity constraints.
Connect with 1,200+ founders and VCs for a day of actionable insights, investor connections, and growth strategies. Join us in Boston on July 15—register by March 31 to save up to $320!
Picture describing Open AI Chief Executive Officer Sam Altman speaks during the Kakao media day in Seoul.
Some areas of this page may shift around if you resize the browser window. Be sure to check heading and document order.
Picture describing Sam Altman, chief executive officer of OpenAI Inc.
Picture describing CoreWeave IPO
Nathan Laine/Bloomberg / Getty Images
Picture describing Elon Musk on stage at CPAC in Maryland with sunglasses on and a MAGA hat
Every Monday, gets you up to speed on the latest advances in aerospace.
the launch of GPT-4o’s native image generation,
“Images in ChatGPT are wayyyy more popular than we expected (and we had pretty high expectations),” Altman said in a post on X on Wednesday.
OpenAI CEO Sam Altman announced on Wednesday that the rollout of ChatGPT’s viral new AI image features to free users would be delayed, citing significantly higher demand than the company expected.
Add Startups Weekly to your subscription choices
Add TechCrunch AI to your subscription choices
Picture describing Binary code and OpenAI logo
Sam Altman firing drama detailed in new book excerpt
Immerse yourself in the world of AI with 1,200 visionaries, VCs, and industry pioneers. From groundbreaking main-stage talks to deep-dive breakout sessions and high-impact networking, this is where AI’s future takes shape. Be part of the movement.
ChatGPT’s new AI image feature is delayed for free users
On Tuesday, the company announced the launch of GPT-4o’s native image generation, which lets users upload and modify images, saying it would soon come to all tiers of ChatGPT. As of Wednesday, OpenAI has only rolled out the feature to subscribers to ChatGPT Pro, Plus, and Teams.