https://techcrunch.com/category/artificial-intelligence/
In a 2023 interview with Forbes, Bui said that VinAI had around 200 employees spread across the startup’s offices in Hanoi, the U.S., and Australia.
Immerse yourself in the world of AI with 1,200 visionaries, VCs, and industry pioneers. From groundbreaking main-stage talks to deep-dive breakout sessions and high-impact networking, this is where AI’s future takes shape. Be part of the movement.
The VinAI acquisition is Qualcomm’s second this year following its purchase of Edge Impulse, an American AI and Internet of Things company, in early March. Qualcomm CEO Cristiano Amon recently called edge AI — AI that can run on devices without the need for data center infrastructure — a “tailwind” for the tech giant.
VinAI, which Bui started in 2019, primarily focuses on AI-powered automotive products, but also conducts higher-level AI research. Backed by VinGroup, a Vietnamese conglomerate, the company creates solutions like in-cabin monitoring, security, and “smart parking” systems for carmakers and customers in other verticals.
1,200+ founders & VCs. One epic day in Boston on July 15. Scale smarter, connect deeper — save $210 when you register now!
Kyle Wiggers is TechCrunch’s AI Editor. His writing has appeared in VentureBeat and Digital Trends, as well as a range of gadget blogs including Android Police, Android Authority, Droid-Life, and XDA-Developers. He lives in Manhattan with his partner, a music therapist.
Bui said that he expects VinAI will contribute to a number of Qualcomm’s product families, including its software and chips for smartphones, PCs, and vehicles. “Our team’s expertise in generative AI and machine learning will help accelerate the development of innovative solutions that can transform the way we live and work,” he added in a statement.
The move marks Qualcomm’s continued expansion into the AI tooling sector. VinAI, which was founded by former DeepMind research scientist Hung Bui, develops a range of generative AI technologies, including computer vision algorithms and language models.
Bui, who serves as VinAI’s CEO, will join Qualcomm following the close of the acquisition, according to the aforementioned press release.
NaNoWriMo shut down after AI, content moderation scandals
Picture describing Qualcomm signage at MWC
Qualcomm acquires generative AI division of Vietnamese startup VinAI
Updated 4/2 9:52 a.m. Pacific: An earlier version of this piece incorrectly referred to Edge Impulse as a German company; the company is based in San Jose. We regret the error.
“This acquisition underscores our commitment to dedicating the necessary resources to R&D that makes us the driving force behind the next wave of AI innovation,” Qualcomm SVP of Engineering Jilei Hou said in a press release. “By bringing in high-caliber talent from VinAI, we are strengthening our ability to deliver cutting-edge AI solutions that will benefit a wide range of industries and consumers.”
OpenAI’s new image generator is now available to all users
Qualcomm has acquired the generative AI division of VinAI, an AI research company headquartered in Hanoi, for an undisclosed amount, the companies announced on Monday.
Researchers suggest OpenAI trained AI models on paywalled O’Reilly books