https://techcrunch.com/category/artificial-intelligence/
Abraham Yousef, senior insights analyst at Sensor Tower, attributed the rising tides not only to new models, but also to new capabilities. Just this past month, Google brought a “canvas” feature to Gemini that lets users preview the output of coding projects, and Anthropic has steadily added tools to its Claude client.
According to metrics from app data analysis company Sensor Tower, the Claude app saw a 21% week-over-week increase in weekly active users during the week of February 24, when Anthropic released its latest flagship AI model Claude 3.7 Sonnet. Two weeks prior, shortly after Google made its Gemini 2.0 Flash model generally available, the number of Gemini app weekly active users grew by 42%.
ChatGPT’s new image generator is really good at faking receipts
Immerse yourself in the world of AI with 1,200 visionaries, VCs, and industry pioneers. From groundbreaking main-stage talks to deep-dive breakout sessions and high-impact networking, this is where AI’s future takes shape. Be part of the movement.
“[F]or March, DeepSeek is in second place, despite seeing traffic drop 25% from where it was in February, based on daily visits,” Carr told TechCrunch. “China’s DeepSeek came out of nowhere in January, but the AI platform with the greatest momentum at the moment is Grok from Elon Musk’s xAI, with traffic up nearly 800% month-over-month.”
OpenAI’s ChatGPT may be the world’s most popular chatbot app. But rival services are gaining, according to data from analytics firms Similarweb and Sensor Tower.
AI companies’ mobile chatbot apps have been growing their user bases, too, perhaps fueled by recent AI model releases.
1,200+ founders & VCs. One epic day in Boston on July 15. Scale smarter, connect deeper — save $210 when you register now!
Kyle Wiggers is TechCrunch’s AI Editor. His writing has appeared in VentureBeat and Digital Trends, as well as a range of gadget blogs including Android Police, Android Authority, Droid-Life, and XDA-Developers. He lives in Manhattan with his partner, a music therapist.
“The rollout of popular new AI models, heightened consumer interest in the space, the introduction of various new features and functions, and the growing number of unique use cases has propelled user growth for AI chatbot apps,” Yousef told TechCrunch.
Similarweb reports that Anthropic’s Claude reached 3.3 million average daily visits in March, and Chinese AI lab DeepSeek’s chatbot eclipsed 16.5 million visits that same month. Meanwhile, xAI’s Grok, which only gained a web app several months ago, averaged the same number of daily web visits as DeepSeek’s chatbot: 16.5 million.
NaNoWriMo shut down after AI, content moderation scandals
But OpenAI probably isn’t panicking yet. Yousef pointed out that ChatGPT had 10x mobile app weekly active users compared to Gemini and Claude combined as of March.
Similarweb, which estimates traffic to websites, including chatbot web apps, has recorded healthy recent upticks in usage across bots like Google’s Gemini and Microsoft’s OpenAI-powered Copilot. Gemini’s web traffic grew to 10.9 million average daily visits worldwide in March, up 7.4% month-over-month, while daily visits to Copilot increased to 2.4 million — up 2.1% from February.
Picture describing TechCrunch Logo
Zelle is shutting down its app, but you probably don’t need to worry
ChatGPT isn’t the only chatbot that’s gaining users
The numbers pale in comparison to ChatGPT, which surged past 500 million weekly active users in late March. Yet David Carr, editor at Similarweb, noted that there’s fierce competition for the No. 2 chatbot spot.
Microsoft’s OpenAI-powered Copilot
OpenAI’s new image generator is now available to all users
Picture describing Illustration on pink background with chatbot and talking bubbles.
Researchers suggest OpenAI trained AI models on paywalled O’Reilly books
DeepSeek’s chatbot eclipsed 16.5 million visits